---
layout: answer-post
title: "作业 Week 12"
subtitle: "assignments in Week 12"
create-date: 2016-11-15
update-date: 2016-11-15
header-img: ""
author: "TA"
tags:
    - 答案
---

> The article was initially posted on **{{ page.create-date | date: "%Y-%m-%d" }}**.

# The GCD and LCM

## Description

---

Give you two integers, and calculate their GCD\(Greatest Common Divisor\) and LCM\(Least Common Multiple\). If both of them are positive, print the GCD and LCM. If some are invalid\(zero or negative\), print ``invalid``.

## Sample Input 1

---

~~~
2 10

~~~

## Sample Output 1

---

~~~
2 10

~~~

## Sample Input 2

---

~~~
14 0

~~~

## Sample Output 2

---

~~~
invalid

~~~

## Hint

---

You may not learn the algorithms of calculating LCM and GCD in your primary school or middle school. So you can serach about them, or read the instruction in wikipedia about [Least Common Multiple](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Least_common_multiple) and [Greatest Common Divisor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greatest_common_divisor).


# GCD, LCM 函数版

## Description

---

Write two functions GCD and LCM.GCD is greatest common divisor and LCM is The least common multiple.

You should only submit the statement of the two functions.

Here is the main function :

~~~ c
#include <stdio.h>
    int main() {
    int a, b;
    int GCD(int, int);
    int LCM(int, int);
    scanf("%d%d", &a, &b);
    printf("%d %d\n", GCD(a, b), LCM(a, b));
    return 0;
}

~~~

## Hint

---

Learn how to definition and call a function.

Try to use Recursive to calculation problem.

Although you must only submit the function statements,but you should write a main function in your computer, so that you can run and verification your code is correct or not.

学会如何去定义并且调用一个函数。

尝试着用递归去解决问题。

虽然题目只要求你交函数的声明，但是你还是应该自己把main函数在自己电脑上写出来，才能自己运行以验证写的函数是否正确。


## Provided Files

---

### func.h

---

~~~ c
int GCD(int , int );
int LCM(int , int );
~~~

### main.c

---

~~~ c
#include <stdio.h>
#include "func.h"
int main() {
  int a, b;
  scanf("%d%d", &a, &b);
  printf("%d %d\n", GCD(a, b), LCM(a, b));
  return 0;
}
~~~


# Fraction Multipe

## Description

---

Give you two fraction, and print their <s>production</s> product.  
There are some points you should know:  
1. the production of two fractions is the production of their numerators\(分子\) divides the production of their denominators\(分母\).  
2. the production should be simplify. That is the GCD of the numerator and the denominator must be 1.  
3. if the numerator is 0, the production is zero.  
4. if the denominator of the production is 1, the production is a integer.  
5. if the denominator of the production is 0, the production is NAN\(Not A Number\).  

## Input

---

The input contains two line.  
The first is the numerator and denominator of the first fraction.  
The second is the numerator and denominator of the second fraction.  


## Output

---

if the production is a fraction, print it like ``a/b``.
if the production is a integer, print it like ``a``.  
if the production is zero, print ``0``.  
if the production is not a number, print ``Not A Number``.  

## Sample Input

---

~~~
3 4
5 6

~~~

## Sample Output

---

~~~
5/8

~~~

## Hint

---

$$
\frac{3}{4} \times \frac{5}{6} = \frac{3 \times 5}{4 \times 6} = \frac{15}{24} = \frac{5}{8}
$$




# Simple Queue

## Simple Queue

---

### Problem

---

Implement a queue.

Input some number means `action`.(End with `EOF`)

+ `1` means **push** into the queue. Promise that another integer will follow it, meaning the value to push.
  + If the queue is full, print `Push Failed. The queue is full.`
  + If the queue is not full, push it into the queue. (Output nothing)
+ `0` means **pop** the front value of the queue. Print the value that was just popped out.
  + If the queue is empty, print `Pop Failed. The queue is empty.`
  + If the queue is not empty, print the value

In this assignment, a queue with a size of **10** is enough.

#### Sample Input

---

~~~
0
1 1
1 2
1 3
1 4
1 5
1 6
1 7
1 8
1 9
1 10
1 11
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
~~~

#### Sample Output

---

~~~
Pop Failed. The queue is empty.
Push Failed. The queue is full.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Pop Failed. The queue is empty.

~~~

### Hint (**Circular Queue**)

---

> If you don't want to see my BB, you can skip this part or just go to [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circular_buffer) to see a very nice gif explaining this.

Queue is a data structure that is FIFO(First In First Out), which means the data first to be pushed, will be first popped.

Generally, we use an array to implement **circular queue**.

For example, `int my_queue[11];`.

Then, we should know where the front/rear is. So we get two "pointer" to store the index of the the front/rear.

`int front_index = 0, rear_index = 0;`

Then with this, we know their position so we can modify it.

#### How to push ?

---

`my_queue[rear_index++] = value;`
**Set** the value and **Move** the rear_index.

#### How to pop ?

---

`front_index++;` 
**Move** the front_index.
Now we cannot access that value, so it seems we popped(delete) it.

#### What is **Circular** ?

---

F for `front`, R for `rear`.

~~~
This queue is full. (Will explain why in the following part)

queue : [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 N
^                    ^
F                    R

Pop 2 times, then we have

queue : [3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 N
    ^                ^
    F                R

Push 5 and 6

queue : [3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,5,6]

6 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 5
^   ^
R   F

~~~

Then you see, `rear_index` reached the end but came out again from the other side. That's it, a circle indeed.

To implement this, when the index change, you should write `index %= 11;`.

#### Why `11` but not `10` ?

---

Here, though the length of the array is `11`, only `10` spaces can be used.

We have to know if it is **full** or **empty**. Here, when `front_index == rear_index` we think it's empty, when `rear_index + 1 == front_index` we think it's full.

~~~
Empty

N N N N N N N N N N N
^         
F/R

Full

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 N
^                    ^
F                    R
~~~

In this way of implementation, `my_queue[rear_index]` is always unreachable. If it points to a position that has a data, then we cannot know if it is empty when `front_index == rear_index`.

(Certainly, there are some other ways to implement without this limitation)

This is why we can only use 10 spaces in a 11-long array.

If you still have no idea about this, search it yourself.



# 裴波那契数列-函数版

## Descrition

---

高中的时候学过裴波那契数列吧，现在编程实现一个函数，要求输入数列的下标，求出该位置的裴波那契数。

下标为 ``0`` 时，输出 ``1``。 

## Input

---

输入有多行

## Ouput

---

对于每一行输入，输出裴波那契数列中该位置的裴波那契数。

## Sample Input

---

~~~
1
2
3
4
5

~~~

## Sample Output

---

~~~
1
1
2
3
5

~~~

## Hint

---

[百度百科-裴波那契数列](http://baike.baidu.com/link?url=K3E-oUfbABU_rZxO4vviyfnka9pZzm6I7vZlBnDLO6hVEefXSVmukk_9FalCDhx8wl8hg8POy9wNXHIgprazWStiNFSz-Q8uXlL01hSm-T-F_ZKShz5wKhskFWMbhZStdtgX6zRxGFpoH0K-ORWHK_){:target="_blank"}

尝试使用递归。

当有多行输入时，可以尝试使用一下代码：
~~~ c
while (scanf("%d", &a) != EOF)
~~~


## Provided Files

---

### func.h

---

~~~ c
int fibo(int );
~~~

### main.c

---

~~~ c
#include <stdio.h>
#include "func.h"
int main()
{
    int a;
    while(scanf("%d",&a)!=EOF)
        printf("%d\n",fibo(a));
    return 0;
}
~~~



